paper/paper.md, before:

---
title: 'CloudnetPy: A Python package for processing cloud remote sensing data'
tags:
  - Python
  - cloud radar
  - lidar
  - microwave radiometer
  - remote sensing
authors:
  - name: Simo Tukiainen
    orcid: 0000-0002-0651-4622
    affiliation: 1
  - name: Ewan O'Connor
    affiliation: 1
  - name: Anniina Korpinen
    affiliation: 1
affiliations:
 - name: Finnish Meteorological Institute, Helsinki, Finland
   index: 1
date: 24 October 2019
bibliography: paper.bib
---

# Summary

Active ground-based remote sensing instruments such as cloud radars and lidars
provide vertical profiles of clouds and aerosols with high vertical and 
temporal resolution. Cloud radars typically operate in the sub-millimeter 
wavelength region, around 35 or 94 GHz, 
mainly providing information on ice clouds, rain and insects. Optical lidars,
on the other hand, are more sensitive to liquid clouds and aerosols. 
Combining these two supplementary data sources with temperature and humidity 
from a numerical weather prediction model makes it is possible to classify 
various scattering objects of the atmosphere.
Furthermore, adding a passive microwave radiometer, an instrument measuring 
liquid water path, quantitative retrievals of geophysical 
products such as ice water content, liquid water content 
and drizzle properties become feasible [@OConnorEtAl05, @HoganEtAl06].

Methodology and prototype software to combine these different data sources, 
and to retrieve target classification and other products, were developed within 
the so-called Cloudnet project [@IllingworthEtAl07]. Since the project started 
in 2002, a network of around 15 stations around Europe has been established 
to regularly collect, process and distribute Cloudnet data (http://cloudnet.fmi.fi). 
While the methodology is valid, more robust and operational processing 
software is called for. In the forthcoming years, Cloudnet will be one of 
the key components in ACTRIS (Aerosol, Clouds and Trace Gases Research 
Infrastructure) [@ACTRIS_handbook], where the Cloudnet framework 
is utilized to process gigabytes of cloud remote sensing data per day 
in near real time. ACTRIS is moving into implementation phase in 2020 
and is supposed to be fully operational in 2025.

CloudnetPy is a Python implementation of the Cloudnet processing scheme. 
CloudnetPy covers the full Cloudnet processing chain starting from the raw 
measurements and providing roughly the same functionality as the original 
Cloudnet software written in Matlab and C. The outputs of the two programs 
are similar but not identical because several methods were revised 
during the refactoring process. For example, because most modern cloud 
radars are polarimetric, CloudnetPy uses linear depolarization ratio 
to improve the detection of melting layer and insects. Also the 
liquid layer detection is now based on the shape of lidar backscatter 
profile instead of threshold values [@TuononenEtAl19]. Detailed
verification of the updated methods is a subject of future studies.
The CloudnetPy API is designed to serve the operational processing, but 
it should be straightforward for site operators and scientific community
with access to raw data to run the software, improve existing 
methods and develop new products.


# Acknowledgements

The authors would like to thank the Academy of Finland for supporting
the development of ACTRIS activities in Finland.

# References

Commit message:

Comments
Overall clear and understandable. Below are some small improvement suggestions.

"Methodology and prototype software to combine these different data sources, 
and to retrieve target classification and other products, were developed within 
the so-called Cloudnet project [@IllingworthEtAl07]."
Confusing sentence, maybe split to two or more? Something like "The so-called Cloudnet project was formed to unify processing standards and develop prototype software (or whatever was its purpose). Due to the project, it is now possible to combine these data..."

I didn't understand some of the terms, such as scattering objects, but if they are as clear as the day for users it's not a problem. Do you think an exhaustive list of improvements compared to original cloudnet (e.g. changelog) would be useful?

paper/paper.md, after:

---
title: 'CloudnetPy: A Python package for processing cloud remote sensing data'
tags:
  - Python
  - cloud radar
  - lidar
  - microwave radiometer
  - remote sensing
authors:
  - name: Simo Tukiainen
    orcid: 0000-0002-0651-4622
    affiliation: 1
  - name: Ewan O'Connor
    affiliation: 1
  - name: Anniina Korpinen
    affiliation: 1
affiliations:
 - name: Finnish Meteorological Institute, Helsinki, Finland
   index: 1
date: 24 October 2019
bibliography: paper.bib
---

# Summary

Active ground-based remote sensing instruments such as cloud radars and lidars
provide vertical profiles of clouds and aerosols with high vertical and 
temporal resolution. Cloud radars typically operate in the sub-millimeter 
wavelength region, around 35 or 94 GHz, 
mainly providing information on ice clouds, rain and insects. Optical lidars,
on the other hand, are more sensitive to liquid clouds and aerosols. 
Combining these two supplementary data sources with temperature and humidity 
from a numerical weather prediction model makes it possible to classify 
various scattering objects of the atmosphere, such as ... (What is a scattering object?).
Furthermore, adding a passive microwave radiometer, an instrument measuring 
liquid water path, quantitative retrievals of geophysical 
products such as ice water content, liquid water content 
and drizzle properties become feasible [@OConnorEtAl05, @HoganEtAl06].

Methodology and prototype software to combine these different data sources, 
and to retrieve target classification and other products, were developed within 
the so-called Cloudnet project [@IllingworthEtAl07]. Since the project started 
in 2002, a network of around 15 stations around Europe has been established 
to regularly collect, process and distribute Cloudnet data (http://cloudnet.fmi.fi). 
While the methodology is valid, more robust and operational processing 
software is called for (What is meant by robust and operational? Can also be explained in the next sentence, e.g. because we're dealing with huge amounts of data we can't use matlab anymore, and have to use something more modern.). In the forthcoming years, Cloudnet will be one of 
the key components in ACTRIS (Aerosol, Clouds and Trace Gases Research 
Infrastructure) [@ACTRIS_handbook], where the Cloudnet framework 
is utilized to process gigabytes of cloud remote sensing data per day 
in near real time. ACTRIS is moving into implementation phase in 2020 
and is supposed to be fully operational in 2025. 

CloudnetPy is a Python implementation of the Cloudnet processing scheme. 
CloudnetPy covers the full Cloudnet processing chain starting from the raw 
measurements and providing roughly the same functionality as the original 
Cloudnet software written in Matlab and C (citation?). The outputs of the two programs 
are similar but not identical because several methods were revised 
during the refactoring process. For example, because most modern cloud 
radars are polarimetric, CloudnetPy uses linear depolarization ratio 
to improve the detection of melting layer and insects. Also the 
liquid layer detection is now based on the shape of lidar backscatter 
profile instead of threshold values [@TuononenEtAl19]. Detailed
verification of the updated methods is a subject of future studies.
The CloudnetPy API is designed to serve the operational processing (What operational processing?), but 
it should be straightforward for site operators and scientific community
with access to raw data to run the software, improve existing 
methods and develop new products.


# Acknowledgements

The authors would like to thank the Academy of Finland for supporting
the development of ACTRIS activities in Finland.

# References
